---
title: "Silence"
date: "2016-05-07"
categories: 
  - "just-talking"
---

Sometimes things are hard to talk about. That may mean they're things that need to percolate, or things that are hard to explain, or that may mean they're things we're hiding. I'm honestly not sure which phase I'm in right now. Working with Hekate is very difficult for me, but that's more to do with my hang-ups and less with the work itself.

She wants me to keep up with the housekeeping. It's an uphill battle. I'm making slow progress... I think. It's hard to be sure in my head.

She wants me to do more magic, and do it less half-heartedly. I'm good at sabotaging myself, despite knowing I'm doing it, and I remain bad at moving my set point. Working at a book store with borrowing privileges for staff means I went right back to my old habit of Reading All The Things, especially when I should be Doing Some Of The Things.

I'm trying different avenues of job hunt magic. I've been having... reasonable success with regular meditation, though not as regular as I would like. I've been adjusting altars and trying to bring better energy in.

So far the magical notetaking is at least helping. I've got a little over six months of trying different things in my notebook. It's probably about time for an initial post on the subject, even though I'm still tweaking it all the time. If I've learned anything from following a bunch of planner/notebook people on YouTube, it's that you never stop tweaking.

That's pretty true of my practice as well. Never stop adjusting it, always keep moving forward.
